= Rubaidhstrano

We have a bunch of deployment-related ... stuff kicking around and I'm fed up
copying it from one project to the next. Particularly when I change/improve
the recipes as I go and those changes don't get to filter back to previous
projects automatically. This plugin (or hopefully, one day, gem!) attempts to
rectify that by collecting all these recipes and support tasks together.

== Contents

There's a real mish-mash of stuff in here, so let's take it one at a time.

=== Database backup and restore

There is a mixture of Capistrano and Rake tasks to allow the database on the
deployment environment to be backed up, downloaded and restored into another
environment.

There are a few useful use cases for these tasks.

==== Backing up the database before a migration

In order to automatically back up the production database before a migration,
insert the following into your capistrano recipe:

    before "db:migrate", "db:backup"

==== Duplicating the production database to your local environment.

You've got a problem in production that you suspect is down to data rather
than anything else and you'd like to dump the production database to your
local development environment for further testing. This can be achieved with:

    cap production db:backup
    rake db:backup:load

Note: this example assumes that you're using multistage deployments for
staging and production. Please also be aware that this will nuke your current
development environment's database!

=== Passenger deployment strategy

We've been through a few deployment strategies over the years -- using
mongrels managed by Runit or Solaris SMF. Now we're just using Passenger
inside Apache and life is much easier. :-) If you've also seen the light then
you can switch Capistrano to use the Passenger deployment strategy with one
line:

    set :deployment_strategy, :passenger

== Thanks

Some of the code has been borrowed from other sources. Hopefully I've
remembered to credit everyone! (So far, it's all mine, but when I nick from
other places, remember to update this bit!)

Copyright (c) 2009 Rubaidh Ltd, released under the MIT license
